Init shell for posthog code docs (#16472)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/posthog-code/git-github-integration.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: @adboio will write

---

> title: Git + GitHub integration

Author: ```suggestion
title: PostHog Git + GitHub integration
```

sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
---

> PostHog Code has Git and GitHub support built directly into the UI, so common operations like committing, pushing, and opening a PR don't have to go through the agent.

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog Code has Git and GitHub support built directly into the UI, so you can perform common operations like committing, pushing, and opening a PR without using the agent.
```

- Sync (pull, then push) to stay up to date with the remote
- View diffs for staged, unstaged, and branch-level changes, with word-level highlighting, whitespace toggling, and word wrap

## Creating a PR

Click **Create PR** and PostHog Code runs the whole sequence in order:

1. Creates a new branch if you're still on main
2. Generates a commit message (if you left it blank)
3. Commits your changes
4. Pushes to the remote, publishing the branch if needed
5. Generates a PR title and body (if you left them blank)
6. Opens the PR via the GitHub CLI

If any step fails, previous steps are rolled back so you don't end up in a half-committed state.

Tick **Draft** in the create-PR dialog to open the PR in draft state.

### Auto-generated messages and PR bodies

When you leave the commit message, PR title, or PR body empty, PostHog Code fills them in for you based on:

- The actual diff of your changes
- Your repo's commit conventions, e.g. conventional commits if detected
- Existing commits on the branch (for PR titles and bodies)
- Your `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`, if present
- A summary of the agent session, when there is one – so the "why" of the change carries through

> You can always edit the generated text before submitting.

Author: No context from signals in the PR? :P

## Reviewing and managing PRs

Once a PR exists, you can do the following in-app without leaving PostHog Code:

- View changed files and diffs in the review panel
- See review comments inline against the diff
- Reply to review comments
- Change PR state: close, reopen, mark ready for review, or convert back to draft

## Cloud tasks

When a cloud task opens a PR, PostHog Code auto-detects the URL from the agent's output and attaches it to the task. The PR status appears in the task header with the same action menu as a local PR, plus a **Continue locally** button to hand the branch off to your machine.

## Setup

PostHog Code uses the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com) (`gh`) for all GitHub operations. To use PR features, install `gh` and authenticate:

```bash
gh auth login
```

> If `gh` isn't installed or authenticated, native git operations like commit, push, and branch still work – you'll only lose the GitHub-specific actions.

Author: Which actions are gh specific? The stuff to manipulate PRs yah?

Reviewer: we rely on gh super heavily, even for checking the existence of PRs etc

but yeadh commit/push/branch still work locally

Author: @adboio I think we should be more direct and just say: if you don't have GH this won't work. More opinionated stance is useful for the age of LLMs. They'll understand to push people to install GH

Reviewer: yeah i think that's fair, along with that we should probably just make sure GH is bundled and/or a required onboarding step. i'll see what we can do here, thank you :saluting_face:

## Troubleshooting

If **Create PR** fails at the push step, check that your branch has a remote configured and that `gh auth status` reports you as authenticated. Force-push is never used – if the remote has diverged, resolve it manually before retrying.

If auto-generated commit messages or PR bodies come back empty, generation requires network access. When you're offline, fill the fields in by hand – the create-PR flow works the same way.

If your PR template isn't being honored, PostHog Code looks for templates at the standard GitHub locations like `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`. Templates in non-standard paths won't be picked up.

> If a cloud task didn't link its PR, the link is extracted from the PR URL in the agent's tool output. If the agent opened the PR via an unusual path that hides the URL, the link may not be auto-attached, but the PR still exists on GitHub.

Author: ```suggestion
- If **Create PR** fails at the push step, check that your branch has a remote configured and that `gh auth status` reports you as authenticated. Force-push is never used – if the remote has diverged, resolve it manually before retrying.

- If auto-generated commit messages or PR bodies come back empty, generation requires network access. When you're offline, fill the fields in by hand – the create-PR flow works the same way.

- If your PR template isn't being honored, PostHog Code looks for templates at the standard GitHub locations like `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`. Templates in non-standard paths won't be picked up.

- If a cloud task didn't link its PR, the link is extracted from the PR URL in the agent's tool output. If the agent opened the PR via an unusual path that hides the URL, the link may not be auto-attached, but the PR still exists on GitHub.
```

> If a cloud task didn't link its PR, the link is extracted from the PR URL in the agent's tool output. If the agent opened the PR via an unusual path that hides the URL, the link may not be auto-attached, but the PR still exists on GitHub.

Author: ✅
